hello we begin with the latest
confrontation between Palestinian
fighters in Gaza and Israel which is now
in its fifth day in the past few hours
Israel has bombed one house in B lahia
in the northern Gaza Strip and others in
Gaza City at least 33 Palestinians have
been gilled since the bombardments began
on Tuesday Rockets have also been fired
from Gaza in the morning triggering
warning sirens in southern Israel this
comes as Egypt and the United Nations
seek to secure
ceasefire in just a moment we'll be
hearing from Villa Marx who's standing
by for us in the south of Escalon that's
near the border with Gaza but first
let's get an update from yumna say who's
joining us from Gaza itself so tell us
about the latest air strikes
yumna yes Daren well uh the Israeli air
strikes have intensified a lot this
morning actually uh many homes have been
targeted I'm talking about five story bu
uh five homes uh three story buildings
uh at least each home of them uh uh just
this morning uh in B Lya in B hanon two
in Gaza City one in and another inuk
while two in beun and and and in b as I
mentioned now uh uh there was a very
cautious calm in retaliation by the
palan factions uh in the past uh morning
hours but then as MERS hundreds of MERS
were caring and saying goodbye to Yad
alhassani the latest Islamic Jihad uh
commander who was killed yesterday in an
assassination in his apartment in a ner
city as they mourned him and took him to
the cemetery where he was buried uh the
barrages of rockets by the Palestinian
factions have resumed uh towards the
Israeli towns uh many of them have been
going on uh just in these past few
minutes Darin also I want to uh mention
the targeting of B Cemetery by an
Israeli air strike that just took uh a
part a couple of minutes ago uh part of
the cemetery was
destroyed uh yumna so do you get the
sense on the ground that things are then
heading towards morph an escalation or
towards uh some sort of
ceasefire well the let me tell you about
the latest statement by Al brigades the
military wing of Islamic Jihad they said
in front of the continuation of the
assassinations and the bombing of
apartments and civilian homes the
Palestinian resistance will renew its
mile bombardment of the occupied cities
confirming the continuation of the
confrontation and the Revenge of the
free that's the operation called by the
Palestinian factions uh they also added
that the resistance has prepared itself
for months of Confrontation now from all
the bombardment that we have been
witnessing last night and all uh morning
hours uh now the retaliation of uh the
exchange of fire between both sides uh
they have these these confrontations do
not show any uh signs of uh a soon or a
a near or even a fruitful uh effort of
any uh mediations towards a ceasefire
and this has rised the the tension here
the fear among the civilians and
residents as we are going into uh the
fifth day of a a continuous Israeli
attack and a continuous exchange of fire
between both sides thank you yum say
thank you for that update from Gaza
let's time bring in vill Marx he's
joining us south of Escalon that's near
the border with Gaza so villm what have
you seen uh where you are
well right now I can hear a a presumably
Israeli military jet right above my head
just about 60 seconds ago there was a
very loud explosion directly above us in
the distance there is a a long plume a
trail from a projectile that looks to be
one of the long range missiles that's
been of great concern to the Israeli
military over the last few days and in
the last 10 minutes or so we've
certainly seen a couple of the smaller
plumes of smoke indicating that the Iron
Dome the defense mechanism has been
intercepting lower trajectory Rockets
here here we've seen warning sirens have
been going off not just in the smaller
communities close to Gaza as happened
early this morning but also in ashalon
the city just a few kilometers up the
road and then further up the coast in
the city of azod an indication again
that these longer range missiles are
effectively getting through some of the
Iron Dome mechanisms no report so far of
any of the projectiles coming from Gaza
landing on homes or of any casualties
but one thing when we talk about the
possibility of DS escalation is
important to emphasize the deputy
secretary of state for the United States
Wendy Sherman has been talking she said
on Twitter to the Strategic affairs
minister here in Israel Ron durma
calling for a deescalation in an attempt
to try and Safeguard lives here okay
thank you vill marks reporting from
ashalon so the United Nations population
fund for Palestine says that at least
417 people or more than 70 families have
been internally displaced by the
escalation of the conflict there are an
estimated 47,000 pregnant women in Gaza
giving birth to some 150 babies every
single day we can now speak to Dominic
Allen who's the United Nations
population fund representative for
Palestine uh Dominic Allen welcome to Al
jazer I understand that you've been
usually based in Jerusalem uh you've
been stuck in Gaza since uh the latest
fighting and the latest escalation began
so uh can you just give us first of all
your initial thoughts on what you've
seen and heard in Gaza and particularly
what are the biggest challenges women
are facing as a result of this uh
bombardment well thank you very much for
having myself and unfp on your show
today Daren um indeed we I'm speaking to
you from the middle of Gaza where I hear
from my window the Rockets exploding and
getting a a sense of the escalation from
from right in the middle of Gaza for for
the UN for un FBA we're really concerned
about the impact of the escalation and
the impact of is having an exacerbating
an already very difficult humanitarian
situation this is uh one of the most
densely populated places in the world
with a huge amount of vulnerable people
and children um for us for for un FBA
our major concern is the impact of this
escalation on on women and girls like
you said especially pregnant women girls
uh pregnant girl pregnant women and
domestic violence survivors this Health
Care system in Gaza it was already on
its knees following the longterm
blockade and the impact that that's had
right these latest attacks have really
made the situation worse all Gaz the
numbers we have so far uh are are that
at least three women have have been
killed in Gaza so what sort of measures
then are being taken by organizations
like yours by the United Nations to
protect the rights of women and to
ensure their safety during these
times Well indeed I think all gazans
have have the right to live a life free
of fear for their lives right now our
concern is about about ensuring the the
the access to healthc care facilities
and hospitals I spoke yesterday with uh
with the head of the elifa hospital
biggest maternity hospital in Gaza
looking after those pregnant women and
she's reporting a reduced number of
women coming to those birthing
facilities be out of fear they're
worried by walking the streets so uh
from our side we're working as part of a
coordinated response to look at all
parts of the sectors but for us for the
pregnant women to ensure that they can
receive the support that they need both
access for for the regular checkups and
and support supplies that are already
major needs are on the ground so we
we're here and we're responding that
must be very difficult a difficult
response though because uh it's safe to
say that the the healthc care system in
Gaza uh has been severely weakened not
only of course by the fighting that's
going on right now but also by by the
occupation yes as I said the um the the
long-term chronic impact comes uh has a
back has a context to this current acute
crisis there are major needs in Gaza
already existing and the Healthcare
System requires significant amounts of
support for us we're looking at what we
can do to support the women and girls
with their sexual reproductive Health
needs um we're looking to provide from
our side the dignity that they require
through kits providing those supplies
especially for those displaced uh
families and and women that you spoke of
earlier we want to make sure that there
are shelters available for and support
services available for those women who
are also suffering from domestic
violence gender-based violence as well
okay we'll leave it there thank you
Dominic Allen we appreciate your time
with us joining us from Gaza